# Maximizing-The-Number-Of-Downloads

INTRODUCTION /n
The aim of this project is to understand and evaluate which factors are more likely to have an effect on the number of users who installed/downloaded an application on Google Play Store. In order to find out how to maximize download amount while developing an app, we have been analyzing the data with respect to the average rating of the app, effect of the genre, downloaders age groups, size of the app in megabytes, review amount of the app, the last date it has been updated and the impact of the pricing. After analyzing the results, it will become possible to predict which application ideas can get higher amount of installations, what should be the target age group for a specific category, which price and the app size is optimal to have maximum number of downloads, what are the effects of ratings or review numbers to downloads. With the correlation and optimization results, different combinations with mentioned factors will be generated and most efficient combination will maximize the installation amount of the app. A further use of these combinations can be foreseen as supporting app developers to reach their targeted group in a more efficient way in addition to create a better app experience for the Google Play Store users. This factor evaluating for maximizing the downloads will also help to create a better and more efficient Google Play Store environment with optimal and user-friendly apps. In that regard, some preprocessing data techniques such as data cleaning are used and also utilized from graphing techniques and machine learning methods to see each feature’s effect on download amounts. It is possible to claim that almost each 13 different variables listed as below have different levels of correlation with the amount of downloads for a given app.

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION
In today’s world where technology plays a crucial role in human interactions, the apps that people use in their phones shape the way they live, and these apps are affected by several of factors which lead them to be used and downloaded more for some reasons. Thus, this project aims to find out which factors influence the apps that are used more frequently in daily life or vice-versa. The research question of the project is: “Which features of Google Play Store apps are more likely to have positive or negative correlation with the number of downloads of a given app?”

METHODS
Description of the Dataset
The dataset that is being used in this project is “Google Play Store” dataset and it consists of 10841 rows and 13 column variables: the name of the app, its category, the rating that it has received, number of reviews, its size, number of installs, the type, the price, the content of the rating, genre, last update date, current version and finally each app’s Android version. There are total 9660 unique app values. For each app, “category” column gives information about the category that an app belongs to such as family, game, art & design, etc. There are total 34 string category entries. “Rating” column gives the number of overall user rating for each app. It is an integer value between 0 and 5. In “Reviews” column, one can see the number of user reviewers for each app. This is an integer variable. “Size” column gives the size of the app in terms of megabytes and kilobytes. There is also “varies with device” value in this column which should be dealt with when progressing the dataset. “Installs” column tells about the total number of user downloads for a given app. It is an integer value. “Type” variable only consists of 2 values as “paid” or “free” depending on an app. “Price” column gives the price of an app which has a type as “Paid”. 93% of the app entries have “free” type and has 0 value in their “Price” column. %7 has information about the price and it varies among 92 different price values. “Content Rating” column stands for the age group the app is targeted at such as everyone, teen and 5 other values. “Genre” column is for displaying the genres that an app belongs to. An app can have multiple genres. Thus, these variables may contain several values each in string type. “Last Updated” column has a date type object and it tells the date hen an app was last updated-on Play Store. “Current Version” and “Android Version” are the columns which have the information about each app’s available versions. It may contain “Varies with deice” value as well.

Preprocessing & Methods
In data preprocessing part, we first started with data cleaning. We filled the NaN values in integer-type columns with corresponding mean value. For non-integer types, we decided it would be better to drop them so that they will not constitute problems in the further steps when doing deep analyzing. Then, we eliminated the duplicated rows from the dataset by using “drop_duplicates” method in order to work with unique elements. After this step, we also eliminated the columns “Last Updated”, “Current Version” and “Android Version” which we cannot draw any conclusions and cannot make any correlations with other variables. As a result, our dataset became more interpretable. Later in data preprocessing, we dealt with the data types for each column. In order to see the correlation between the variables, we for example deleted the units for size column and made them float values. While doing the deletion, we of course needed to do some conversions in order to prevent the data loss and occurrence of incorrect data. For similar reasons, in “Installs” column, we deleted the “+” from the end and we removed the dollar sign “$” in “Price” column. After getting done with data preprocessing, we started to look for possible relationships between the variables. For instance, we examined the correlation between the ratings and the number of installs. We utilized from graphs while performing this step. We also tried some machine learning techniques. (Each step of each method can be seen from below.)

RESULTS
The first result that we got is the correlation between the ratings of an app and the installation amount. After utilizing from “group-by” method and plotting techniques we found out that the apps with lower rating than 3.0 tend to have dramatically lower number of downloads. On the other hand, apps having 4.0 or more rating have considerably larger amounts and the ones have rating in between 4.3 and 4.7 have the largest number of installations. Other result can be stated as how a genre of an app is related to its download amount. We have seen that people are more likely to download the apps about “Adventure” and it is followed by “Communication.” Thirdly, we investigated the relation between the price of an app and install numbers. It is seen that free applications have relatively higher tendency to be downloaded. However, two applications with price $6.99 have a lot of download numbers and other factors played significant roles about these apps to be downloaded that much. Next, we looked after the correlation between reviews and installation amounts. We have seen that the average number of reviews for the apps that have higher downloads is 5 million. Indeed, there are some apps that high number of installations despite of the fact that it received less than 5 million reviews. Another feature that may have an affect on downloads is the size of an app and after the investigation we have put forward that it is not very certain to conclude and make predictions between these two variables. We also looked for a possible relation of age and number of downloads and it resulted in a way that apps that are made for 10+ ages are drastically larger in number of installation amounts.

• Is rating important when someone downloads an app?

• Do users consider the size of an app when they are about to install?

• Does the content of an app is related to the number of downloads it receives?

• What should be the content of age when designing an app?

• Does making an app non-free have an effect on the download numbers?

• Does an app having higher number of reviews mean it is downloaded more frequently?

DISCUSSION
The examination of Google Play Store data revealed that users of Google Play Store are more interested in downloading the apps that performs some specific characteristics. For instance, rating of the app appealed to be a factor when users are deciding if an app is worth to download or not. The users are more likely to decide that the app is worth to download if the app’s rating is more than 3.5/5. Moreover, when the users' installation preferences about apps are investigated, results suggested that there are significant differences between the installation amount of apps that belong to different genres. By the investigation of app genres installation amounts, it hass been found out that apps that belong to communication and adventure genres are approximately twice as more likely to be downloaded by the user. Another result that came up to the surface by investigation of the relationship between genres and installation amounts was, users downloaded the apps that belong to education and creativity tens of times less than other genres. Among the apps that are recorded as not free, no indication of a possible correlation between the price and installation amount of the app has been found as indicated in correlation matrix. On the other hand, the correlation between installation amount and review amount found out to be quite different than the case for price and installation. Relatively strong positive correlation between reviews and installation amount is supported by both correlation matrix results and box plot results. Another parameter; size, also did not report any correlation nor relation with installation amount. Despite the fact that there is a peak for apps that has around 60-80 megabytes of size, this peak is mostly occurred due to the fact that the majority of apps has a size around this interval. Through the investigation of different parameters some gave beneficial outputs and some have not indicated any interpretable result. Therefore, a more compehensive research on downloaders and app's characteristics could give more precise outputs.

CONCLUSIONS
Through the examination of app's installation amounts corrolation and dependency with some spesific attibutes of the app such as Size, Genre, Review amount, Price and Rating we concluded that some attributes of an unreleased app may indicate promising download counts after its publication. On the other hand, there are still many characteristics that would not provide strong background to estmate the possinble download amount of an unreleased app, therefore in order to estimate the download amount accurately, plenty more parameters should also be taken into account.

FUTURE INTEREST
Colloboration with another data collection on apps characteristics and users preferences can be done so that the parameters can be cross checked and the apps that are causing too much deflection in the output can go through different processes. Another approach that would take this work to another level would be the addition of the parameter that indicates how many review was positive and how much was negative, what is amount of uninstallations of the app(which can be gathered by recording if it is downloaded by the same user multiple times) so that we would know if the users just tried the app and than did not like it or if they are using it consistently.
